boilerplate.md, before:

Volunteer information was last updated Friday, 8th of October 2021
  
This server is self-moderating and volunteer run. What does that mean in practice?  
  
One relevant definition of moderation is:  
  
the quality of being moderate; restraint; avoidance of extremes or excesses; temperance.  
  
Our expectation is that everyone on this server participates in moderation. Show restraint, watch your temper, steer clear of extremes and follow the rules. This is first and foremost an educational space for {purpose} with an inclusive lens and the rules are in place to protect that. When someone opts to not be, or is unable to be self-moderated, collective intervention may become necessary to re-establish clear boundaries for everyone. There are some roles that community members can take on to assist in this process, which we will lay out below. Anyone taking on roles must understand the expectations that come with them. They will involve some emotional and material labor. Anyone performing these roles volunteers to do so. Community members can give up their roles anytime they wish to. Roles may also be revoked when those roles are abused.  
  
This is what it means when we say the server is self-moderating and volunteer run.  
  
The current roles on the server are:  
{roles placeholder}
  
## "Welcomers"
The duties for welcomers are minimal, with the following responsibilities:  
- Follow the introduce-yourself channel .  
- Welcome new members to the server.  
- Assign the "Server Members" role after the new members introduce themselves.  
- Direct new members to channels/resources that may be relevant to them.  
- You will receive additional pings when you have this role.  

## "Administrators"
The duties for administrators are require a heavier commitment, with the following responsibilities:  
- Define and clarify the scope of the server. This includes working to strike a balance between community feedback and practical concerns for the {community}.  
- Maintain the rules of the server. As rules need to be adjusted to better align the server within its defined scope, consult with the community to clarify what needs are not being met or could be better addressed.  
- In cases where one of the other roles is potentially being abused, re-establish role expectations and work with the administrator team to heal any harm done.  
- Represent the intentions of {community} transparently.  
- This role has Discord privileges to mute/kick/ban to be used as a last resort.  
- Manage channels, bots, {community resources}, etc.  
- You will receive additional pings when you have this role.  
  
### [Special note about: "Administrators"]
~ the administrators role [**does not**] include:  
- Exceptions to the rules. Administrators are held to the same standard as anyone else. Rules may be adapted in situations where the administrator's actions are otherwise in accord with the scope of the server and simple clarification is necessary.  
- Being a first-line responder. Generally speaking, allowing the community to de-escalate and self-mediate will be ideal in all but the most extreme cases.  
  
"Administrators" may take on or forfeit additional roles on the server as time and energy allows. This role is largely a behind the scenes one.  

---
  
If you would like to volunteer for one of these roles, or if you have questions or concerns regarding them, please be active on the server for a minimum of two weeks and contact us by direct messaging @ModMail (top of the server member list). Additional roles will be added later. Cheers!

Commit message:

bottom section now indicates "first" draft
posting for review, as-of:

Friday, 8th of October 2021
[UTC timezone]

boilerplate.md, after:

Volunteer information was last updated Friday, 8th of October 2021
  
This server is self-moderating and volunteer run. What does that mean in practice?  
  
One relevant definition of moderation is:  
  
the quality of being moderate; restraint; avoidance of extremes or excesses; temperance.  
  
Our expectation is that everyone on this server participates in moderation. Show restraint, watch your temper, steer clear of extremes and follow the rules. This is first and foremost an educational space for {purpose} with an inclusive lens and the rules are in place to protect that. When someone opts to not be, or is unable to be self-moderated, collective intervention may become necessary to re-establish clear boundaries for everyone. There are some roles that community members can take on to assist in this process, which we will lay out below. Anyone taking on roles must understand the expectations that come with them. They will involve some emotional and material labor. Anyone performing these roles volunteers to do so. Community members can give up their roles anytime they wish to. Roles may also be revoked when those roles are abused.  
  
This is what it means when we say the server is self-moderating and volunteer run.  
  
The current roles on the server are:  
{roles placeholder}
  
## "Welcomers"
The duties for welcomers are minimal, with the following responsibilities:  
- Follow the introduce-yourself channel .  
- Welcome new members to the server.  
- Assign the "Server Members" role after the new members introduce themselves.  
- Direct new members to channels/resources that may be relevant to them.  
- You will receive additional pings when you have this role.  

## "Administrators"
The duties for administrators are require a heavier commitment, with the following responsibilities:  
- Define and clarify the scope of the server. This includes working to strike a balance between community feedback and practical concerns for the {community}.  
- Maintain the rules of the server. As rules need to be adjusted to better align the server within its defined scope, consult with the community to clarify what needs are not being met or could be better addressed.  
- In cases where one of the other roles is potentially being abused, re-establish role expectations and work with the administrator team to heal any harm done.  
- Represent the intentions of {community} transparently.  
- This role has Discord privileges to mute/kick/ban to be used as a last resort.  
- Manage channels, bots, {community resources}, etc.  
- You will receive additional pings when you have this role.  
  
### [Special note about: "Administrators"]
~ the administrators role [**does not**] include:  
- Exceptions to the rules. Administrators are held to the same standard as anyone else. Rules may be adapted in situations where the administrator's actions are otherwise in accord with the scope of the server and simple clarification is necessary.  
- Being a first-line responder. Generally speaking, allowing the community to de-escalate and self-mediate will be ideal in all but the most extreme cases.  
  
"Administrators" may take on or forfeit additional roles on the server as time and energy allows. This role is largely a behind the scenes one.  

---

This document is a "first" draft
*(posting for review)*
